Gov. Mai Mala Buni of Yobe, has launched a second phase of empowerment programme to Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises (SMEs) in the state. He said the programmes combined with the previous skills acquisition and empowerment projects were part of the recovery plan for sustainable means of livelihood. “In this event, we would witness the distribution of complete GSM Handset Repair sets and laptops, fish and poultry production, small-scale rice milling, personal beauty and hygiene materials, among others,” Buni said. He added that the target beneficiaries were the mobile phones and allied products traders and other youth across the state. “Our commitment to poverty alleviation, job and wealth creation to speed up our recovery process and uplift the lives of our people, remain sacrosanct and unshakeable,” Buni said. The governor enjoined the beneficiaries to avoid reselling and to ensure optimum utilization of the items. “I enjoin beneficiaries of these and other empowerment programmes to ensure the judicious use of the packages for self-improvement. “By doing so, the government would be encouraged to reach out to more people for us to collectively fight poverty,” he added. He commanded the people of the state for their peaceful conduct during the presidential and national assembly elections. He also advised them to vote wisely in the forthcoming gubernatorial election for continuity and consolidation of developmental programmes. Also speaking, Alhaji Abdullahi Bego, the Commissioner, Ministry of Wealth Creation, Empowerment and Employment Generation, commended Buni for the gesture. Bego recalled that on Feb. 3, Buni launched a similar empowerment support for businessmen, widows and vulnerable persons in the state. He said the governor recently commissioned 100 Toyota avensis taxi cars, which are to be used for town service across the state, among others. “His excellency also announced cash support to Micro, small and medium businesses and vulnerable persons,” the Commissioner added. 