Gov. Biodun Oyebanji of Ekiti has reiterated the commitment of his administration to ensuring comprehensive renovation of all government hospitals across the state. Oyebanji stated this on Monday when he paid an unscheduled visit to the General Hospital, Ilawe-Ekiti, in Ekiti South West Local Government Area. The governor said his administration embarked on the renovation of all health facilities in the state in order to ensure effective healthcare delivery system in the state. Oyebanji, who was conducted round the hospital complex by the Chief Medical Director (CMD), Dr Oladimeji Ashafa, expressed dissatisfaction with the current state of the hospital. He said that regular inspection of facilities and projects across the state would be a major feature of his administration. The governor urged the workers in the hospital not to be discouraged by the physical structure, saying that renovation of hospitals across the state was being done in phases. He assured the workers that the hospital would be captured in the next phase of the hospital renovation project. Oyebanji also appealed to prominent Ekiti indigenes across the state to contribute their quota towards ensuring the well being of government facilities in their localities. He made a personal donation of a 7.5KVA generator to the hospital to boost power supply and to bring about effective service delivery. Addressing the staff after the inspection, the governor commended them for their perseverance, commitment and dedication to duty in spite of the challenges of dilapidated facilities and structures in the hospital. “I have seen the situation at this General Hospital, Ilawe-Ekiti, I am not happy about it, but it is good that I have come. We will go back and see what we can do. “We have commenced renovation of hospitals and it is an ongoing project. Inspecting facilities is going to be a permanent feature of my administration, I want to see things for myself,” Oyebanji said. Also, addressing some residents of the town, the governor assured them that the road from Ilawe-Ekiti to Ikere-Ekiti would be revisited as his government has begun the process to mobilise the contractors handling the project to site. He also assured youths that government would soon inaugurate programmes that would empower them, calling on them to key into the programmes. The governor also paid an unscheduled visit to the Technical College, Igbara-Odo, where he inspected the ongoing renovations. He assured that his administration would boost vocational education and make it attractive to the citizens as one of the pathways to entrepreneurship. 