The National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) in Abuja on Friday gave awards to three persons for their efforts toward elimination of Sexual and Gender- Based Violence (SGBV). The awardees were given the award of plaques and certificates based on their contributions to their communities in Federal Capital Territory (FCT). They are: Amb. Gimbiya-Hannatu Usman, Ruth-Anta Osu and Buhira Ibrahim. The Director-General of NAPTIP, Prof. Fatima Waziri-Azi, said the recipients of the awards had over the years devoted their lives to the development of their communities. She said that the awards which was in commemoration of the 2023 International Women’s Day, was given in partnership with two other organisations. According to her, these community activists have over the years devoted their lives to consistently challenging long-standing harmful cultural practices. Waziri-Azi said that they had worked harmoniously with traditional rulers and men in their communities, encouraged and mobilised others to do same in the defence of their rights and the rights of other women and girls. “We thought it necessary to recognize and honour these women who have devoted their lives in preventing SGBV in rural communities within the FCT and serving as role model members of their communities. “Government remains committed to advancing effective approaches to keeping all persons safe and most of the efforts to combat gender-based violence and other harmful practices at the grassroots level “Which is why grassroots initiatives that best respond to incidents with a culturally-sensitive approach must be implemented,” she said. One of the awardees, Osu, while responding to questions of where she drew her motivation from, stated that her motivation was as a result of the silent culture of most Nigerian women. She said that she had decided to speak out for those who were silent in the society and were facing various challenges in their homes particularly women under the SGBV issues. “I also believe that i will always get the support of NAPTIP and the traditional leaders in my community if I can be speaking for the vulnerable,’’ Osu said. 