An Ikeja High Court on Tuesday restrained the Office of Lagos Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, and Kosofe Local Government from forcefully taking over the Alaba Section of Mile 12 Market. Justice Latifat Oluyemi gave the interim  injunction pending determination of an application before the court. Other respondents in the suit  number ID/6464GCMW/2022, include Ikosi/Isheri Local Council Development Area, Dr Chris Onyekachi, Total Value Integrated Services Ltd. and Lagos State Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development. The application was initiated by Incorporated Trustees of Orirere Community Leaders and Traders Association, Yeye Precious Modupe Ojo, Alhaji Akinwale Jimoh and Babatunde Adetula. The claimants sued for themselves and on behalf of the traders from the Alaba Section of Mile 12 Market. Justice Latifat Oluyemi restrained the respondents, their agents, servants, privies and any other person from demolishing or forcefully taking over the section pending  determination of the motion on notice. The suit was brought under Order 42 Rules 1 and 4 and Order 43 of the High Court of Lagos State (Civil Procedure) Rules, 2019, and other provisions. The claimants’ counsel, Mr M.G. Quadri, alleged that he was refused entry and chased out by Princess Samiat Abolanle-Bada, the Chairman of the Ikosi-Isheri LCDA at a mediation meeting held on Dec. 19, 2022, which  he said, all parties attended. Quadri had alleged that  the respondents continued with demolition of the said section of the market on Dec. 18, 2022, in spite of service of court processes and prior agreement by parties concerned. He said that the agreement which took place at the Office of the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, on  Dec. 17 2022, was  to stay active until the Dec. 19, 2022 meeting. “On Dec. 19, the second meeting was held. All parties who attended the previous meeting also attended this one. “The respondents orally promised the applicants to begin some sort of resolution process and stop further destruction of the market. “Despite the promises given, destruction of properties and assault on helpless traders by heavily armed thugs have not stopped.  It only increased exponentially. “From the time the motion on notice was filed, up until now, more parts of the Alaba Section of the Mile 12 Market have been destroyed. “Traders have been forced away from their shops, and thugs have been patrolling the area, assaulting anyone that comes close,” the counsel had submitted. The judge  adjourned the case until Jan. 19 for further hearing. 