Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi will be inaugurating an over one-kilometre road reconstructed by a philanthropist that leads to the Cathedral Church of St. Cyprian, Abakpa-Nike, Enugu,on Sunday, Jan. 29. The reconstructed road, which runs from Housing Estate Road linking Nike Road down to the Cathedral Church, was solely done by Prince Arthur Eze, a philanthropist, at the request of Nike Diocese in Enugu State. This is contained in a statement issued by Dr Chiwuike Uba, the Media Adviser to the Bishop of Nike Diocese (Anglican Communion), on Thursday in Enugu. According to him, Ugwuanyi will inaugurate the road project in the company of the Metropolitan and Primate of the Church of Nigeria, the Most Rev. Henry Ndukuba, and his wife, Angela. Uba said that others expected at the inauguration is the benefactor, Prince Arthur Eze, Bishop of Nike Diocese, the Rt. Rev. Christian Onyia, and the Bishop’s wife, Mrs Nneka Onyeka. He said that the inauguration of the road would be preceded the previous day by other activities associated with the visit of the Primate to Nike Diocese, which includes the arrival of the dignitaries through the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, on Saturday Jan. 28. “There will be a courtesy call on the governor of Enugu State the same day by the Primate and his entourage, and an evening fellowship with the Anglican faithful at the Cathedral. “Among activities on Sunday, Jan. 29, will be a Holy Communion Service at 8a.m. to be presided over by the Primate that will feature the Diocesan Covenant Service and retirement service of the Provost of the Cathedral, Very Rev. Chinedu Nebo (former Minister of Power), and his wife, Ify. “The 70th birthday celebration of Mrs Ify Nebo and the 45th wedding anniversary of the couple will be marked,” he said. It would be recalled that Nebo had served in the administration of President Goodluck Jonathan as Minister of Power, after serving as Vice Chancellor of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, and of the Federal University of Oye, Ekiti. 