Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has advised traditional rulers across the state to use their positions to foster unity among the residents as well as improve the security of lives and property of their people. Akeredolu gave the advice during the presentation of the instrument of appointment and Staff of Office to Oba David Adebawore, the Olusama of Usama in Ile-oluji/Okeigbo Local Government Area of the state. In a statement by Mr Banjo Egunjobi, the Public Relations Officer of the state Ministry of Finance, the governor implored traditional rulers to always be sensitive to strange moments. Akeredolu, represented by the state Commissioner for Finance, Mr Wale Akinterinwa, said any wrong acts around traditional rulers should be reported with a view to combating the menace of banditry, kidnapping and other forms of insecurities. “Security matters should not be left with the government alone, rather, they should be a collective effort of every member of the community,” Akeredolu said. The governor also warned against ‘expansionist tendencies’ by any traditional rulers under any guise and urged them to refrain from installing minor chiefs outside their jurisdiction, particularly in disputed areas. He also charged them to use their appointment as an instrument to promote peace, tranquility and development in their various communities. “See your appointment as a divine call to serve your people and always exercise restraint and caution in the use of traditional powers being conferred on you by the state government. “The Instrument should be employed to strengthen the peace and cohesion of your domain and that of the state in general. “Also use your position to foster peace and unity among your subjects, improve the unity in your domain to rid off miscreants who might have banditry and kidnapping tendencies. “Always refrain from expansionist tendencies by appointing or installing minor chiefs outside your jurisdictions, particularly in disputed areas which can cause rancour and security threats,” he urged. Akeredolu prayed for God’s wisdom, knowledge and understanding for the King to lead his people in the right direction, just as he rejoiced with residents and the new traditional ruler on his well-deserved recognition. The governor reiterated the commitment of his administration to the provision of more dividends of democracy to the people. He added that his administration’s policy on education advancement and human capital development would be pursued with vigour. The governor recalled that his administration had carried out massive renovation of public primary schools and recruitment of over 1,200 primary school teachers. He said that the government had invested in the healthcare facilities which had been equipped with modern medical equipment across the state with over 600 medical personnel recruited for primary healthcare. Earlier in his welcome address, the chairman of the local government, Mr Dayo Akinsuroju, thanked Akeredolu for upgrading four chiefs to Kingship status in the area. Akisuroju charged the new King to live in peace and harmony with other traditional rulers in the area, urging the people of the community to join hands with him to move the community forward. In his response, Adebawore thanked Akeredolu for making a dream of over 30 years become a reality. The Oba, however, solicited for more government intervention in the community. The stool of Usama is among the 62 chieftaincy stools recently upgraded and recognised by Akeredolu’s administration following the report of Justice Ajama Judicial Commission of Enquiry on Chieftaincy Matters in the state. 