Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege, the All Progressives Congress (APC) Governorship candidate in Delta, says his government will complete the abandoned Okpe Stadium and the Effurun/Eku Road project, if elected as governor. Omo-Agege, representing Delta Central Senatorial District at the National Assembly, made the pledge during the continuation of his ward-to-ward campaign visit to Orerokpe, Aghalokpe and Adeje Towns, all in Okpe Local Government area of the state. The candidate, who is also the Deputy President of the Senate, said he would attend to the developmental needs of the people of Okpe Kingdom. Omo-Agege regretted that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governorship candidate, Mr Sheriff Oborevwori, could not attract development to Okpe kingdom, having occupied the position of Speaker for about six years in the state House of Assembly. According to him, Oborevwori failed to use his influence as a Speaker to ensure the completion of the Effurun-Orerokpe-Eku road dualisation project in his immediate constituency. The APC governorship candidate urged the people of Delta to pressurise Oborevwori to also come forward for a national television debate. “The people of Delta should pressurise the PDP governorship flagbearer to personally speak to them in an open debate to be aired nationally. “I am challenging Oborevwori to a debate. I am using this opportunity to challenge him to a national television debate. He likes hiding under people during campaign “He should personally come out and tell the people of Delta what he plans to do for them. If you look around now, there is nothing in Okpe Local Government area. “The only thing that was supposed to come to Okpe is the Technical College and the project is abandoned. “In the past seven and a half years, this state has received N4.2 trillion. With all that amount that has come to Delta, look at our roads from Effurun to Orerokpe to Ovurie and to Eku, which is supposed to be dualised. “The sum of N20 billion has already been spent on that road and yet it was abandoned,” he said. Omo-Agege listed several other projects he had attracted and executed in Okpe Local Government area. The APC Governorship candidate and the campaign team, thereafter, moved to Aghalokpe, his paternal grandmother’s family home where the elders and kinsmen prayed for his victory at the poll. Received by Head of the Onokpayunu Family of Ereke Quarters in Aghalokpe, he said the visit was to prove to naysayers that he was a true son of Okpe Kingdom. In his remarks, Omo-Agege’s running mate, Mr Friday Osanebi, urged the people to support and vote for all APC candidates in the forthcoming elections. 