By Yusuf Yunus and Augusta Uchedinor Tokunbo Abiru – A former Lagos State Commissioner for Finance The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Mr Adetokunb Abiru, the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, as winner of Lagos East Senatorial District election. Prof. Simeon Adebayo Oladipo, the Senatorial Returning Officer, announced Abiru as the winner on Monday in Lagos. The Returning Officer for the East Senatorial District, who declared the results at about 12.48 p.m. at INEC Collation Centre, in Somolu, said that Abiru secured 178,646 votes. With the figure, Oladipo said that Abiru beat his closest opponent, Mr Akobada Nicholas Adekunle of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who got 80, 249 votes. It was reported that the Presidential and National Assembly elections were held nationwide in Nigeria on Saturday. Our correspondent also reports that the East Senatorial District comprises of Somolu, Kosofe, Epe, Ibeju-Lekki and Ikorodu local governments. According to Oladipo, nine political parties contested for the East Senatorial election seat. The returning officer said that the election was contested and the candidates recorded the following votes. Imumolen Ehijele Benedict, A, scored 2, 211 votes: Ashiru George Olalekan-Honey, ADC, scored 14, 713 votes; Olowolayemo Temitope Temitayo, BP, scored 1,049 votes and Lawal Nurudeen Folorunsho, NNPP, scored 7,305 votes. Others are Ediale Christopher, NRM, scored 508 votes; Oluwaranmilowo Mayowa, SDP, scored 6,009 votes and Obadiaru Charles Imuenoghonwen, YPP, scored 4, 345 votes Oladipo said, “I, Prof. Simeon Adebayo Oladipo, hereby, certify that I am the Returning Officer for the Lagos East Senatorial election, Somolu, held on the 25th day of February, 2023 that the election was contested “Abiru having scored the highest votes at the election, has won the Lagos East Senatorial seat. “l, hereby, declared Abiru Mikhail Adetokunbo, winner and returned elected on 27th February, 2023. “Abiru Mikhail Adetokunbo of APC, having satisfied the requirements of the law, has scored the highest number of votes, he is hereby declared the winner and returned elected on 27th February, 2023,” Oladipo said.  By Ishaq Zaki The former Governor of Zamfara, Alhaji Abdulaziz Yari, has won Zamfara West Senate position under the All Progressives Congress (APC). The Returning Officer, Zamfara West Senatorial Election, Prof. Rufus Tinuola announced the results at the collation centre in Talata-Mafara on Monday. Tinuola said Yari scored 147,346 votes against his closest opponent of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Bello S-Fagon, who scored 58,832 votes. He said other candidates were: AA Party scored 65 votes, Ibrahim Musa of ADC scored 150 votes, Ahmad Lawali of APP scored 75 votes and Aliyu Yahaya of LP with 111 votes. The other candidates include: Sale Nasiru of APGA scored 258 votes, Sulaiman Lawali of ADP scored 239 votes and Abdulmalik Adamu of NNPP got 363 votes. “Having satisfied the requirements of the law, the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for Zamfara West Senatorial District, Abdul’aziz Yari, is hereby declared winner and is returned elected,” he added. Reacting to Yari’s victory, an APC chieftain in the state, Alhaji Sha’ayau Sarkinfawa, commended people of the area for voting Yari for the Senate position. Sarkinfawa said that from the records as a former governor of the state, Yari has the qualities to be a representative of Zamfara West in the Red Chamber. It was reported that there were wild celebrations in Talata-Mafara town over Yari’s victory.  By Adeyemi Adeleye and Taiye Olayemi The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Monday concluded state collation of Presidential Election’s results in Lagos State after about 18 hours of collation. It was reported that the Presidential and NASS elections were held simultaneously across the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory on Saturday. The collation of results from the 20 Local Government Areas (LGAs) of Lagos state, which started at 6.30p.m. on Sunday evening was rounded up at 12noon on Monday, 48 hours after conclusion of the Saturday’s election. The exercise was carried out at the Lagos State Collation Centre for the Presidential Election situated at INEC Media Centre at the commission’s headquarters in Yaba. It was however stopped intermittently to wait for the arrival of results from some LGAs within the period. The State Collation Centre Officer, Prof. Adenike Oladiji, the Vice Chancellor, Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA) after concluding the collation commended all stakeholders for patience and support. Oladiji called in various party agents to signed the result before it would be moved to the nation’s capital, Abuja for the National Collation of results from the 36 state of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory. The exercise was conducted under the watch of party agents, domestic and foreign observers, security agences, the media and other stakeholders. Reacting to the outcome, Mr Olusegun Mobolaji, the Chairman, Inter Party Advisory Committee, Lagos State told our reporter that the results showed that INEC had passed the test of democracy. “The commission has shown that they do not belong to any political party. Kudos to INEC. Democracy is about the wishes of the majority of the people in any clime,”Mobolaji said. Speaking, the PDP Agent at the collation centre, Capt. Tunji Shelle (Rtd) said that the election lacked credibility, as BVAS were allegedly comprised.  By Joy Mbachi There shall be supplementary election in Anambra West and Anambra East Federal Constituency as INEC has detected over-voting in two polling units. The Returning Officer, Dr Ugochukwu Okafor made the declaration on Monday at Otuocha, Anambra East Local Government Area of Anambra. He said that while the total number of accredited voters in the two affected polling units was 1,113, total votes cast were 28,579. He explained that at Polling Unit 004 at Umualum Square in Aguleri Ward 2, 555 voters were accredited, while at Polling Unit 007 at Umugalagu, also in Aguleri Ward 2, 558 voters were accredited. He added that at the end of vote-counting, Mr Peter Anaekwe of the Labour Party (LP) led with 14,847 votes while Chief Chinedu Obidigwe of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) got 13.782 votes. Obidigwe is the incumbent member of the House of Representatives for the constituency. Dr Okafor said in line with INEC regulations and the Electoral Act 2022, a new date shall be fixed to conduct fresh election in the two polling units.  By Henry Oladele The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has appealed to candidates of political parties to think more of Nigeria as the nation await results of Saturday elections. The group’s Director, Prof. Ishaq Akintola, made the call in a statement issued in Lagos on Monday. Akintola urged all candidates to avoid inflammable statements and to demonstrate faith in the country’s electoral system. The organisation further urged politicians and their followers to eschew post-election violence and to seek redress in the court of law, if aggrieved. “Nigerians went to the polls on Saturday, Feb. 25, to pick their 16th president, senators and representatives. “As at today, Monday, Feb. 27, the results are still coming in trickles. “But already, there have been pockets of violence in a few places around the country, although this has not been widespread and they have been contained. “MURIC appeals to all candidates in the 2023 general elections to think more of Nigeria now and in the next few weeks,” he appealed. He said that elections weighed heavily on contestants and the tendency is for emotions to run high among supporters. “True democrats, responsible contestants and patriotic candidates are usually identified by the way they control their sentiments and how they guide their supporters towards actions capable of stemming tension. He warned that the international community was waiting by the ringsides, adding that Nigeria must not be turned into a caricature of democracy and a laughing stock in the commity of nations. “Neither should any candidate attempt to burn the bridge after crossing it because the lives of more than 200 million Nigerians are at stake. “Therefore, candidates should realise that Nigeria is bigger than all the contestants put together,” he said.  By Thompson Yamput The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says the re-election in nine polling units in Ganaja Village in Ajaokuta Local Government Area of Kogi was peaceful and successful. Alhaji Haliru Sule, Kogi INEC Head of Voters Education and Publicity, made this known in in a interview with our reporter on Monday in Lokoja. It was reported that INEC ordered re-election in the nine polling units on Sunday following its inability to conduct the Presidential and National Assembly elections due some logistic problems. The affected polling units include the Fload Estate, Gadimo, Peace Community behind 500 Unit, Emiworo, Eidi-Groud, Harmony and Simi-Baby 1&2. “But thanks be to God, the re-election was successfully and peacefully conducted in the affected polling units in Ganaja Village under tight security. “We began accreditation around 1p.m. of Sunday and concluded between 1a.m and 2 a.m. of Monday, Feb. 27. “Right now collation of the results is in progress at the Council Collation Centre,” he said. Sule expressed gladness that the people of Ganaja Village were not disenfranchised in the 2023 general elections.  By Nasir Bashir The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has declared Mr Habib Mustafa of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), as the winner of Jigawa Central Senate seat. INEC Returning Officer, Prof. Usman Haruna, who declared the results on Monday in Dutse said that Mustafa polled 153,731 votes to emerge winner. Haruna said that Sen. Sabo Nakudu of the All Progressives Congress (APC), polled 134,802 votes to place second. He said that Mr Musa Bako of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP’s) scored 18,662 votes, while Mr Musa Abdullahi of ADC scored 620 votes. He said that Hindatu Ibrahim of NRM scored 462 votes, while Gambo Bala Amina of SDP scored 292 votes. It was reported that Nakudu, the incumbent senator was also a two-term member House of Representatives.  By Afusat Agunbiade-Oladipo Malam Saliu Mustapha, a Senatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara Central, has been declared winner of Saturday’s election. Prof. Abdullahi Abubakar, Returning Officers for the Senatorial Election in Kwara Central, announced Mustapha, early Monday morning, as the winner, having satisfied the requirements of the electoral law. Abubakar said that Mustapha polled 109,823 votes against his close rival, Malam Bolaji Abdullahi of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who polled 69,202 votes. Also, Mr Apaokagi Salahuddin of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), polled 13,193 to come third in the keenly contested election.  By Mustapha Yauri Malam Sadiq Abdullahi of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has won the Sabon Gari Federal Constituency in Kaduna state with 33,616 votes. Dr Hashim Suleman, of the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria the Returning Officer, announced the result in Zaria on Monday. Suleiman declared Abdullahi winner of the election having defeated his closest contender, the incumbent member representing the area, Malam Garba-Datti Mohammed of the All Progressive Congress who scored 31,737 votes. Garba-Datti Mohammed, who presently represents the constituency in the National Assembly for the fourth term, was seeking re-election. ”Sadiq Abdullahi, having satisfied the requirements, is hereby declared winner and returned elected.’’ The returning officer said the constituency had 217, 941 registered voter. He said that out of the 217, 941 registered voters, 79, 580 voters were accredited for the election, while 76,654 valid votes were casted.  By Ehigimetor Igbaugba Some officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) have been held in the commission’s office in Ogoja, Cross River over alleged missing “Declaration Form.” It was reported that trouble started when after the declaration of Sen. Jarigbe Agom-Jarigbe as the winner of the Cross River North senatorial district election and he could not be issued with the “Declaration Form” upon demand. The Ogoja Electoral Officer, Mr Peter Kolo tried to convince the Senator that it would be issued later since the one meant for the senator-elect was not readily available. This, however, infuriated supporters of the senator who demanded that it be issued immediately or no one would be allowed to leave the office premises. However, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Prof Gabriel Yomere said, when responding through a phone call, that he sent the form along with other electoral materials. Agom-Jarigbe’s supporters, however, blocked the gate of the compound and said no staff of the commission would be allowed to go out until the Declaration Form was presented to the Senator elect. It was reported that the issue, which started around 3:05 a.m., was yet to be sorted out as at the time of filing this report. Meanwhile, Agom-Jarigbe defeated Gov. Ben Ayade of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Cross River North Senatorial seat. The Peoples Democratic Party candidate defeated the governor in the election conducted on Saturday with 76,145 votes against 56,595 votes.  By By Awayi Kuje The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Sen. Godiya Akwashiki of the Social Democractic Party (SDP), as the winner of Saturday’s election for Nasarawa North Senatorial District. Sen. Godiya Akwashiki The INEC Returning Officer, Prof. Ilemona Adofu of Federal University, Lafia, in the early hours of Monday in Akwanga, declared Akwashiki as the winner with 44,471 votes. Akwashiki defeated the the former Executive Secretary, National Judicial Commission (NJC), Alhaji Danladi Halilu Envuluanza of the All Progressives Congress, who scored 32,058 votes. It was reported that the People Democratic Party (PDP) scored 11,212 votes, New Nigeria Peoples Party 4,083 votes and All Progressives Grand Alliance 1,455 votes, among others. “Godiya Akwashiki SDP having scored the highest number of votes, is hereby declared as the winner of the election conducted on the 25th of February for Nasarawa North North Senatorial District,” Adofu said. The Returning Officer said that the total registered votes in the zone were 338,042. He added that votes cast were 101,863 while valid votes were 99,687 and rejected votes were 2,176. Speaking in an interview, Alhaji Muluku Agah, the SDP Returning Agent of the senatorial election, appreciated God and the people of the zone for the re-election of Akwashiki. Agah, who is a member representing Nassarawa Eggon East Constituency at the Nasarawa State House of Assembly, described the election as credible, free and fair. The lawmaker, who is also the SDP candidate for Nassarawa Eggon East constituency for March 11 election, assured that Akwashiki would provide more dividends of democracy to the people of the zone.  By Olukayode Babalola The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Ahmed Wadada of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) winner of the Nasarawa West Senatorial District election. Prof. Nasirudeen Baba, INEC Returning Officer for the Nasarawa West Senatorial District election made the declaration after the collation of results on Monday at the Zonal collation centre in Keffi local government area of the state. According to him, following the election held on Feb 25, Wadada polled a total of 96488 votes as against the candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC) who scored 47717 votes. The name of APC candidate was not on the list due to legal case at the Supreme Court that has been resolved in favour of Shehu Tukur. Baba added that Alhaji Musa Galadima of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) scored 46820 votes while Mr Bala Tongurma of Labour Party scored 33228 votes. He said total votes cast for the election was 234040, while total valid votes amounted to 228917 with 5123 votes rejected. “I Associate Professor Nasirudeen Baba hereby certify that I am the returning officer for the 2023 Nasarawa West Senatorial District election held on the 25th of February, 2023. “That Wadada Ahmed of SDP having satisfied the requirements of the law is hereby declared the winner and is returned elected,” he said. Mr Yakubu Mohammed-Salisu, SDP Party Agent for the election attributed Wadada’s victory to his antecedents of mentoring the young and poor. “This election is the people’s choice,” he said. It was reported that the Nasarawa West Senatorial District is where the APC National Chairman, Sen. Abdullahi Adamu comes from. Adamu was the senator representing the zone at the Senate before his election as the APC National Chairman in 2022.  By Peter Amine International Organisation for Peace Building and Social Justice, a non- governmental organisation, has urged Nigerians to conduct themselves peacefully as Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declares Presidential and National Assembly election results. The organisation’s Executive Director, Mr Ishaya Durkwa, who briefed newsmen on Sunday evening, appealed to Nigerians not take actions that could cause violence of any kind in the country. Durkwa said that Nigeria lost so many lives in different forms of crises in the last few years and must avoid anything that would endanger more lives. The executive director advised those that might not be comfortable with the outcome of the elections to explore other alternatives rather than resort to violence. “I call on Nigerians to insist for what is fair, what is right, what is just in a peaceful way. “We have different avenues that we can seek redress. We don’t want people to go on the streets, we don’t want riots. “We don’t want killing and burning of buildings. We want peace in our nation,” he stated. Durkwa, however, called on INEC to declare results that were fair and just that reflect how the people voted. He called on INEC to look into numerous cases where many people were unable to cast their votes for no fault of theirs. “We are calling on leaders who participated in the signing of the peace accord to rise and ensure that the peace we have been enjoying in the past few months is not truncated. “This is time for you to work assiduously and collaborate with INEC and all well meaning Nigerians to make sure that nobody is disenfranchised or shortchanged. “Everybody have the right to express his civic responsibility and it’s important that these leaders get together and deny themselves sleep to see that what needs to be done is done. “This is the only way to sustain peace. Peace is is a consequence of justice where there is no justice, there will be no peace,” he added.  By Awayi Kuje The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has declared Mr. Umaru Jeremiah of All Progressives Congress (APC) as winner of the Akwanga/ Wamba/ Nassarawa Eggon federal constituency with 38,430 votes. He defeated the incumbent member representing the Constituency, Alhaji Abdulkarim Usman, who scored 19, 681 votes. Assoc. Prof. Dalhatu Musa of Federal University, Lafia, the INEC Returning Officer, in the early hours of Monday in Akwanga, declared Jeremiah as the winner of the election. Other party votes scored included SDP-21284, NNPP- 8451 and APGA-1677, among others. “Mr Umar Jeremiah of APC, having scored the highest number of votes, is hereby declared as the winner of the election conducted on the 25th of February for Akwanga/ Wamba/ Nassarawa Eggon federal Constituency,” he said. The Returning Officer said that the total registered votes in the zone were 338,042. He added that votes cast were 99,598 while valid votes were 97,351 and rejected votes were 2,247. In an interview, the APC Returning Agent of the election, Mr Bala John, described the outcome as a victoy for democracy. He thanked the people of the constituency for electing Jeremiah as member of House of Representatives. Reacting to results, Jeremiah dedicated his victory to God Almighty and the people of the constituency.  By Sumaila Ogbaje Former Chief of Army Staff, Gen. Tukur Buratai, has sympathised with victims, families and the Borno State Government over the Sunday morning fire that razed the popular Maiduguri Monday Market. Buratai, who is the immediate past Nigerian Ambassador to the Republic of Benin, conveyed his sympathy in a statement on Monday in Abuja. He commended the Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum, for his prompt response to the disaster by the donation of N1 billion as relief to the victims. He also called on well-meaning and philanthropic Nigerians home and abroad to donate generously towards alleviation of the losses incurred by the victims. “When I learned of the unfortunate fire that destroyed property worth billions of Naira at the renowned Maiduguri International Market, I was horrified, saddened, and distressed. “To all the victims and their families, and the Borno State Government, I extend my sincere sympathy and condolences for the tragic losses. “I share your pain at this trying moment. “May Almighty Allah restore to all the victims their losses and the market be reconstructed within a very short time to enable business activities resume,” he said.  Ehigimetor Igbaugba Some officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) have been held in the commission’s office in Ogoja, Cross River over an alleged missing “Declaration Form.” The trouble started when after the declaration of Sen. Jarigbe Agom-Jarigbe as the winner of the Cross River North senatorial district election and he could not be issued with the “Declaration Form” upon demand. The Ogoja Electoral Officer, Mr Peter Kolo tried to convince the Senator that it would be issued later since the one meant for the senator-elect was not readily available. This, however, infuriated supporters of the senator who demanded that it be issued immediately or no one would be allowed to leave the office premises. However, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Prof Gabriel Yomere said, when responding through a phone call, that he sent the form along with other electoral materials. Agom-Jarigbe’s supporters, however, blocked the gate of the compound and said no staff of the commission would be allowed to go out until the Declaration Form was presented to the Senator-elect. The issue, which started around 3:05 a.m., was yet to be sorted out as at the time of filing this report. Meanwhile, Agom-Jarigbe defeated Gov. Ben Ayade of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Cross River North Senatorial seat. The Peoples Democratic Party candidate defeated the governor in the election conducted on Saturday with 76,145 votes against 56,595 votes.  By Adeyemi Adeleye/Taiye Olayemi The APC Presidential Candidate, Sen. Bola Tinubu, is in the early lead as INEC collated presidential election results of 17 out of 20 local government areas of Lagos state. APC won 10 of the local government results declared so far while the Labour Party’s Presidential Candidate, Mr Peter Obi, won in seven in the closely contested presidential election. The Candidate of the PDP, Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar is coming behind in a distant third. The exercise, which started at about 6.30 p.m. on Sunday evening at INEC Media Centre at the commission’s headquarters in Yaba, was stopped intermittently to wait for the arrival of results from some LGAs. The yet to be presented LGAs results are those of Ojo and Alimosho LGAs while results from Mushin, though presented but to be approved and accepted. The State Collation Centre Offficer, Prof. Adenike Oladiji, the Vice Chancellor, Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA), who announced a break at 4.a.m. said that the collation would resume at 10.a.m. on Monday. NAN reports that the APC won in Agege, Apapa, Badagry, Epe, Ibeju-Lekki, Ifako-Ijaiye, Ikorodu, Lagos Island, Surulere and Lagos Mainland LGAs while LP won in Ajeromi Ifelodun, Amuwo-Odofin, Eti-Osa, Ikeja, Kosofe, Oshodi-Isolo and Somolu LGAs in the announced and submitted results so far. The election results were presented by various Local Government Area Collation Officers and accepted by Oladiji after approval. There were some cases of results cancellation in few polling units for various reasons like overvoting, non-usage of Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS), violence and others. The exercise is being conducted under the watch of party agents, domestic and foreign observers, security, and media among other stakeholders who had waited all night to see the end of the collation. The Presidential and NASS elections were held simultaneously across the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory on Saturday.  By Peter Amine International Organisation for Peace Building and Social Justice, a non-governmental organisation, has urged Nigerians to conduct themselves peacefully as Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declares Presidential and National Assembly election results. The organisation’s Executive Director, Mr Ishaya Durkwa, who briefed newsmen on Sunday evening, appealed to Nigerians not to take actions that could cause violence of any kind in the country. Durkwa said that Nigeria lost so many lives in different forms of crises in the last few years and must avoid anything that would endanger more lives. The executive director advised those that might not be comfortable with the outcome of the elections to explore other alternatives rather than resort to violence. “I call on Nigerians to insist for what is fair, what is right, what is just in a peaceful way. “We have different avenues that we can seek redress. We don’t want people to go on the streets, we don’t want riots. “We don’t want killing and burning of buildings. We want peace in our nation,” he stated. Durkwa, however,  called on INEC to declare results that were fair and just that reflect how the people voted. He called on INEC to look into numerous cases where many people were unable to cast their votes for no fault of theirs. “We are calling on leaders who participated in the signing of the peace accord to rise and ensure that the peace we have been enjoying in the past few months is not truncated. “This is time for you to work assiduously and collaborate with INEC and all well-meaning Nigerians to make sure that nobody is disenfranchised or shortcahnged. “Everybody have the right to express his civic responsibility and it’s important that these leaders get together and deny themselves sleep to see that what needs to be done is done. “This is the only way to sustain peace. Peace is is a consequence of justice where there is no justice, there will be no peace,” he added.   By Awayi Kuje The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Sen. Godiya Akwashiki of the Social Democractic Party (SDP), as the winner of Saturday’s election for Nasarawa North Senatorial District. The INEC Returning Officer, Prof. Ilemona Adofu of Federal University, Lafia, in the early hours of Monday in Akwanga, declared Akwashiki as the winner with 44,471 votes. Adofu defeated the former Executive Secretary, the National Judicial Commission (NJC), Alhaji Danladi Halilu Envuluanza of the All Progressives Congress, who scored 32,058 votes. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the People Democratic Party (PDP) scored 11,212 votes, New Nigeria Peoples Party 4,083 votes and All Progressives Grand Alliance 1,455 votes, among others. “Godiya Akwashiki SDP having scored the highest number of votes, is hereby declared as the winner of the election conducted on the 25th of February for Nasarawa North North Senatorial District,” Adofu said. The Returning Officer said that the total registered votes in the zone were 338,042. He added that votes cast were 101,863 while valid votes were 99,687 and rejected votes were 2,176. Speaking in an interview, Alhaji Muluku Agah, the SDP Returning Agent of the senatorial election, appreciated God and the people of the zone for the re-election of Akwashiki. Agah, who is a member representing Nassarawa Eggon East Constituency at the Nasarawa State House of Assembly, described the election as credible, free, and fair. The lawmaker, who is also the SDP candidate for Nassarawa Eggon East constituency for March 11 election, assured that Akwashiki would provide more dividends of democracy to the people of the zone.  By Thompson Yamput The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has cancelled results of 11 polling units in Kogi on Saturday, over thuggery and failure of a Presiding Officer (PO) to operate the BVAS correctly. The results of 10 polling units were cancelled in Ofu Local Government Area (LGA) due to activities of political thugs, and a polling unit in Yagba East LGA due to ineptness of a PO. Dr Alhassan Abdulrahaman, the Collation Officer for Yagba LGA, on Sunday disclosed cancellation in his area, while presenting the results to the State Collation Officer, Prof. Wahab Egbewale (SAN), Vice Chancellor, University of Ilorin. It is worthy of note that Abdulrahaman had barely finished his presentation when Egbewale asked him whether any result was cancelled in the area and he answered in the affirmative. “Yes Sir, we do have cause to cancel some results in Yagba East Local Government during last Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections. “At Unit 006 of Ward 10, we have no option than to cancel the results of that particular unit on a simple reason that the PO didn’t know how to operate the BVAS issued to her for the exercise. “It looks as if she wasn’t trained for the job, because we tried to help her, but she couldn’t pick up. We were so amazed. “At that point we had no option than to cancel the result of that very unit,” Abdulrahaman explained. Prof. Abdullahi Musa-Yusuf, Collation Officer (CO) for Ofu LGA of Kogi, while presenting his results, said results of 10 units had to be cancelled due to activities of political thugs. Musa-Yusuf said the political thugs invaded the affected units in Itobe and Ayaji wards and packed away the election materials, a situation he said disrupted the election in those units. He disclosed that more than 6, 600 votes in those units had to be cancelled. NAN reports that results of a total of 14 out of 21 Local Government Areas of Kogi were received by the Prof Egbewale led team at the Kogi Situation Room/Collation Centre, including, Bassa, Idah, Igalamela-Odolu, Umala, Okehi and Olama-Boro. Dekina, Adavi and Ibaji LGAs, whose results could not tally were asked to go and tidy up and return on Monday to represent theirs. Egbewale, thereafter, thanked all stakeholders including patties’ agents, security operatives, observers, journalists and INEC officials adjourned the collation to 11.am of Monday, Feb. 27 for continuation.  By Muhammad Nasir Bashir The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Alhaji Dahiru Madaki of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as winner of Saturday’s election for Dutse/Kiyawa Federal Constituency seat in Jigawa. The INEC Returning Officer, Prof. Musa Okpanachi, declared Madaki, who polled 47,836 votes as winner at the Dutse/Kiyawa Collation Centre in Dutse on Monday. Okpqnqchi said that the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Abdullahi Kyamba scored 36,718 votes. The returning officer also announced that Shehu Muhammad of the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP) scored 2,729 votes.  By Aminu Garko The Independent National Electoral Commission ( INEC ) on Sunday announced Sen.Barau Jibril of the All Progressive Congress (APC)  as the winner of Kano North senatorial election. Prof. B.M Tijjani Returning Officer announced the result at INEC office in Bichi town, headquarters of Bichi Local Government Area. Jibril scored 234,262 votes to defeat Dr Baffa Bichi of NNPP, who scored 177,014 votes. Similarly, the INEC has declared Yusuf Ahmed Badau, also of the APC as winner of Saturday’s election for Shanono/Bagwai Federal Constituency of Kano State. The Returning Officer, Prof.Hafizu Yakasai announced the result on Sunday at the Bagwai INEC office. Yakasai said that Badau scored 27,706 votes to defeat his closest rival, Musa Suleiman Shanono of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), who polled 23,027 votes. Similarly, the commission had also declared Abubakar Kabir Abubakar of APC as the winner of the Bichi Federal Constituency. Prof. Sunusi Adam, returning officer announced this at INEC office on Sunday in Bichi. Abubakar scored 38,943 votes to defeat Abdullahi Bichi of the NNPP who scored 15,434 votes.  By Christian Njoku The Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC) has postponed the announcement of election results in Cross River to 10am on Feb. 27. This was disclosed by Prof. Gabriel Yomere, INEC’S Resident Electoral Commissioner, (REC) for Cross River on Sunday night at about 9 pm at the state collation centre in Calabar. According to him, the postponement was due to the fact that they have received the result of only Etung Local Government Area, out of the 18 LGAs in the state. The postponement was the second time on Sunday due to the lack of results coming in from the 18 LGAs in the state. The event which was earlier scheduled for 12 noon was postponed to 7 pm because no results had been received at the time. In an interview with journalists at the state collation in Calabar, Yomere said they were supposed to commence the collation by 7pm but at about 9pm only the result from Etung LGA was available for the announcement. “We all know that election continued till Sunday in some LGA’s in the state and in many of them, especially from the northern part of Cross River collation was still on at the Ward level. “Also, we all know that from Cross River North to Calabar takes about six to seven hours; by the time they finish the collation at the ward levels there, it would be about 12 midnight and they can only get to Calabar by 7am or 8am on Feb. 27. “Just taking one result and waiting all through the night is not profitable, so, the state collation officer and I decided to shift the announcement to 10am on Feb. 27,” he narrated. While appealing to the various stakeholders to be patient, he said by Feb. 27, they were sure that about 80 per cent of the collated results from the LGAs would have come in. The INEC Secretariat in Calabar, venue of the collation and announcement of the result of the presidential and national assembly election, in Cross River was heavily guarded with the presence of armed military and paramilitary officials.  By Angela Atabo Labour Party has alleged malpractices in the result collation of the Presidential and National Assembly elections on Feb. 25. The National Chairman of the Labour Party, Julius Abure, said this at a news conference to address the serious matters arising from the 2023 election. Abure said that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) by its conduct has caused Nigerians, particularly youths, who took part in this election with high hopes of a free and transparent process to hold strong feelings of disappointment and disillusionment. “The Electoral Act was amended in 2022 for the electronic transmission of results after they are declared at the polling units. “Nigerians participated in this process with the belief that the use of technology and adherence to the agreed electronic transmission of results to INEC servers at polling units would ensure free, fair, and transparent elections. “Yesterday, being Saturday, Feb.25, 2023, the very process which INEC assured Nigerians would be followed was truncated for whatever reasons. “No matter what those reasons are, they are totally unacceptable to Nigerians and members of the party. “INEC servers shut down and only presidential elections could not be uploaded on to the INEC server.” Abure said that the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) did not work as planned. “This failure no doubt has given room for manipulation of the presidential results being announced by the INEC Chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu at the Collation Centre in Abuja. “We have sufficient documentary evidence that confirms that manipulations of the presidential elections results have occurred in Lagos, Rivers, Imo, Parts of Edo State, Delta State, and some Northern States. “These manipulations were carried out under the watchful eyes and connivance of police officers at the various election units and INEC offices.” Abure said that 24 hours after the elections, INEC was yet to upload the authentic results adding that the excuse that the server was down was “flimsy and not tenable”. He said that the irregularities in the electoral process adding that the election had been marred by irregularities and the integrity of INEC and its Chairman was now in doubt. “We, therefore, call on Mr President,Muhammadu Buhari, who promised Nigerians that he would leave a legacy of free, fair, and credible elections, assuring Nigerians, on several occasions, that their votes would count and that the process leading to the elections would be transparent and open. “We are calling on you to live up to your promise to Nigerians as millions of Nigerians, particularly, the youth, participated in the 2023 elections with the hope that Mr President would keep to his promise of a free, fair, and transparent election.” Abure said that Labour Party also called on the INEC Chairman to ensure that the wishes of the people were upheld. He said the party and its presidential candidates would not accept results that reflected the actual voting results obtained at polling units across the country.   By Stephen Adeleye Mr Florunsho Olafemi, the All Progressive Congress (APC) candidate for Yagba Federal constituency in Kogi, has congratulated the winner of the election, Mr Leke Abejide of African Democratic Congress (ADC). ”I take this opportunity to congratulate you on your well-deserved victory,” Olafemi said in a statement issued on Sunday Olafemi in Lokoja. “With this victory, I am confident that the issues and challenges facing our people will be addressed. “I also pray you will help create a platform where new and young minds will emerge to build a better Yagba land.” He urged Abejide to strive to fulfill all the promises he made to the people of the constituency. “With the elections behind us, please, let me know how we can collaboratively work for a better Yagba Land. It shall always be “Yagba First”, Olafemi added.  By Angela Atabo A Coalition of Civil Society Organisations has expressed worry over the slow upload of the Presidential and National Assembly election results. Mr Hamzat Lawal, Chief Executive, Connected Development (CODE)who spoke on behalf of the Civil Society Organisations on Sunday in Abuja, said that at the INEC result portal currently has only results for 40,000 polling units. Lawal said “this is most disturbing as we are aware that INEC created over 50,000 new polling units with less than 100 registered voters in each of them. “This is even as elections have since been concluded in most of these polling units at 2:30p.m., yesterday. Yakubu, INEC Chairman “One would expect that by midnight of yesterday, all this polling units results should have been uploaded. “This expectation is coming from the experience we observed in the Ekiti and Osun Gubernatorial elections, where we witnessed over 95 per cent of the results uploaded before midnight on election day.” He said that the CSOs were forwarding to INEC some of the reports they were got from the field. Lawal said that with 20,000 community-driven observers on the ground, CODE and its partners using the Electoral Intelligence tool, Uzabe, noticed a worrisome trend across the nation. He said that these pointed to the gaps and unpreparedness within the structure of the electoral process and which threaten the credibility of this election. The coalition said that there were several reports which indicated that in states like Ekiti, Cross River, Imo, and Rivers, INEC had their Local Government Area (LGA) collation centers relocated without adequate information to stakeholders. “In Ekiti especially, we have it on good authority that all LGA collation centres were relocated, and in most cases, accredited observers were outrightly denied access to were results were being collated. “This happened in Oru East, Imo State, where our observers confirmed that no election was held and in fact, some voters were asked to vote in a private residential building of a party chieftain, which is clearly against INEC guidelines and the electoral act. “Yet we have results from that LGA. This is an indictment on INEC and all that our constitution stands for,” the group said. Lawal said that CODE and its partners call on INEC to indeed be independent and serve the people what the constitution has mandated it to serve. “Therefore, we are calling on INEC to address these issues immediately. We are also calling on the Nigerian police as the lead agency on election security to monitor,” he said.  By David Adeoye Akeem Adeyemi, one of the sons of the late immediate past Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, has won the Atiba/ Afijio/Oyo East/Oyo West Federal Constituency seat for the third time. Adeyemi, popularly known as SKIMEH, is currently representing the federal constituency and re-contested on the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Adeyemi had earlier won the federal constituency seat in 2015 and 2019. The result was declared at the collation center for the federal constituency situated within the premises of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) office in Oyo East Local Government area in Akunlemu area of Oyo. Adeyemi scored a total of 34, 822 to defeat all other candidates who participated in the election. The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mudashiru Akinlabi, scored 31,671, while Oyedemi Oyeleru of Accord scored a total of 13, 544. Yesufu Ademola of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) scored 77 votes and Ogunniyi Olaoluwa of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) scored a total of 1,951 votes. Also, INEC on Sunday declared the candidate of APC, Aderemi Oseni, the winner of Ibarapa East/Ido Federal Constituency, in the Saturday’s National Assembly election. Prof. Dayo Akinola, the INEC Returning Officer, announcing the results, said Oseni scored the highest votes of 26, 285 to defeat his closest rival, the incumbent, Rep. Oluyemi Taiwo of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who polled 10,988 votes.  By Philip Yatai Mr Donatus Mathew of the Labour Party has won the Kaura Federal Constituency seat in the Feb. 25 Presidential and National Assembly Elections in Kaura Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The Returning Officer, Prof. Elijah Ella, who declared the result in Kaura on Sunday, said Mathew polled 10,508 votes, to defeat his closest opponent, who is also the incumbent, Mr Gideon Gwani of PDP, who garnered 10,297 votes. The defeated PDP lawmaker is taking a shot at the seat for the fifth time. The Returning Officer said Prof. Benjamin Gugong of the All Progressive Congress came third with 9,919 votes, while Mr Simon Na’Allah of the New Nigeria Peoples Party came fourth with 5,354 votes. He explained that a total of 36,983 voters were accredited, out of the 101,624 registered voters in the LGA. He added that of the 36,983 accredited voters, 36,133 cast their votes. “Mr Donatus Mathew of the Labour Party, having satisfied the requirements of the law by scoring the highest votes, is hereby declared the winner,” he said. 