9mobile, a telecommunications company, on Friday said it had appointed Mr Victor Nwaobia as its new Chief Sales Officer. 9mobile, in a statement released in Lagos, said the new role would make Nwaobia part of the company’s executive management team. It said he would be responsible for driving the company’s sales strategies, initiatives, objectives across the Consumer Sales Channels, enterprise business and retail experience. According to the statement, 9mobile is witnessing massive network expansions, and is expanding its capacity and capabilities to offer its customers advanced end-to-end products, services and solutions. It said through his experience and expertise, Nwaobia would support 9mobile’s efforts to build meaningful customer connections and unlock the next phase of technology solutions for transformation and future growth. “Nwaobia, a sales and marketing strategist, has rich experience in commercial functions with expertise in telecommunications, pharmaceuticals, gaming, sports betting and general consulting. “He is passionate about driving business growth and enhancing business operations and revenue through initiating and implementing strategic marketing and sales initiatives,” the telco said. Commenting on the appointment, 9mobile’s Chief Executive Officer, Juergen Peschel, said: “9mobile is one of the industry’s leading service providers, delivering innovative communication solutions for our customers to fulfil their personal and business objectives.” Peschel said Nwaobia was a strategic sales leader with a proven track record of building and motivating high-performing sales and partner teams. He said his rich experience and expertise in sales strategy, new business development, customer advocacy and in-depth execution would play a key role in establishing the company as a telecommunications solution leader. “Nwaobia has spent a long time in the commercial units of 9mobile, spanning over 10 years before leaving to pursue other businesses. “We are excited to have him back to deplore his wealth of business experience and legacy knowledge of our business in driving our consumer sales and services teams,” Peschel said. Speaking on his appointment, Nwaobia said: “9mobile is well positioned and has the potential to drive the next generation digital transformation with its unique and innovative service offerings.” Nwaobia said he looked forward to working with the team in unlocking the unique potential and building upon the team’s success to create value for their customers and deliver on the telco’s purpose of transforming lives through digital networks via their products and services. Our correspondent reports that the new Chief Sales Officer, holds a bachelor’s degree in pharmacy from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, and a master of business administration in marketing from Enugu State University of Science and Technology, and has over 22 years experience. 