The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), on Tuesday, urged youth corps members participating in the 2023 general elections to adhere strictly to guidelines contained in the Electoral Act. The Director-General of NYSC, Brig:-Gen. Yusha’u Ahmed, made the call at the closing ceremony of the 2023 Batch ‘A’ stream I orientation course at the permanent orientation camp, Wailo, Ganjuwa Local Government Area of Bauchi State. Represented by the NYSC Coordinator in Bauchi State, Alhaji Namadi Abubakar, the D-G urged them to participate in elections with high sense of responsibility and remain neutral throughout the exercise. Ahmed said “as was the case with previous elections, youth corps members would form the majority of ad hoc personnel that would be enlisted for the conduct of the exercise. “It will interest you to know that the performance of your predecessors contributed to the credibility of previous elections and earned NYSC accolades from both local and foreign observers. “As you get set to partake in this important national assignment, I will like to assure you that we have secured the commitment of the Independent National Electoral Commission and security agencies regarding your welfare and safety before, during and after the elections.” He explained that NYSC would continue to liaise with financial institutions and other stakeholders to provide start-up loans to enable youth corps members to actualise their business dreams which they participated in during the skill acquisition training. Ahmed further assured that management would continue to explore avenues to optimise the impact of the programme. Gov. Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State implored the youth corps members to internalise the ideas of the scheme and pursue with patriotic zeal, the realisation of all set of nation goals in pragmatic terms. Represented by his Deputy, Alhaji Baba Tela, the governor congratulated the youth corps members“ for their high level of discipline, comportment and resilience during the orientation exercise. “You have not only lived up to expectations but have also completed the orientation programme without any hitch. “I am convinced that you have not only transformed to greater Nigerians but you are now poised to putting our dear country on the positive path of sustainable development.” In Keffi, Nasarawa State, the NYSC boss also urged youth corps members enlisted as ad hoc personnel for the 2023 general elections to remain neutral throughout the exercise. Ahmed gave the charge at the closing ceremony of the 2023 Batch ‘A’ Stream I Orientation course at the Magaji Dan-Yamusa NYSC Permanent Orientation camp in Keffi Local Government Area of the state. Represented by the NYSC Coordinator in Nasarawa State, Alhaji Abdullahi Jikamshi, he said youth corps members enlisted to participate in the electoral process as ad hoc staff must remain neutral. The D-G advised them to avoid risky engagements that could expose them to security threats wherever they were posted to. He said “you must be wary of acts that can portray the scheme in bad light, especially drug abuse and trafficking, cybercrime, advanced-fee-fraud and spreading of fake news, among others.” It was reported that the 2023 general elections is expected to take place on Feb. 25 for the Presidential and National Assembly elections, while the Governorship and House of Assembly elections is for March 11. Many youth corps members are expected to play key roles in the success of the process. 