Chief Olabode George, a former PDP Deputy National Chairman and the party’s Lagos Governorship Candidate, Dr Abdul-Azeez Adediran (Jandor)  on Monday united ahead of the general elections. It was reported that there has been a cold war between George, the PDP leader in the state and Adediran over some unresolved issues between the duo shortly after the PDP primary. In a statement by Mr Gbenga Ogunleye, the Head, Media and Communications, JANDOR4GOVERNOR Campaign Organisation, George and the candidate met on Monday to resolve differences ahead of Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly Elections. Ogunleye said, “The cold war between the National Leader of the Peoples Democratic Party, Chief Olabode George and the governorship candidate of the party, Dr Abdul-Azeez Olajide Adediran (JANDOR) has been finally put to an end in a reconciliation and unity meeting held today.” He quoted George as saying that there was no disagreement of any sort in the party again. According to him, George described himself as an irredentist member of the party. He quoted George as saying that “personal differences would not affect his insistent on the rescue mission of the state from the grip of the marauders. “The mis-governance and mismanagement of the resources of Lagos by the ruling APC over the years will be over in a matter of days as Lagosians will vote en-mass for Jandor.” Ogunleye said that George enjoined all party members to unite and work hard to ensure the party wins in their respective local government areas. Also, Adediran was quoted as expressing gratitude to George for his magnanimity and fatherly oversight. He commended the elder statesman for his untiring efforts over the years to deliver Lagos state from the clueless and inept successive governors. Adediran said that with the resolve of the leadership to close ranks, the coast was now clear and the chances of the PDP in the general elections was much brighter. He assured residents that the pains and hardship being experience would be forgotten immediately the PDP forms the government at the state and the federal level. 