Troops of Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) have killed dozens of terrorists and captured more than 40 in recent operations in the Lake Chad Basin. The Chief of Military Public Information for MNJTF, Lt.-Col. Kamarudeen Adegoke, made this known in a statement on Wednesday in N’Djamena Chad. Adegoke said the troops also destroyed several terrorists camps during the clearance and stabilisation operations in the region conducted from Jan. 18 to 29. He added that 87 Boko Haram and Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP) terrorists surrendered within the period. Adegoke said in Sector 1, Cameroon, the troops conducted ambush operations on Jan. 22 and Jan. 23 in the general area of Kolofata-Kirawa, captured one terrorist alive and recovered significant quantity of assorted foodstuff. According to him, the Sector has been very active in dominating its area through land and maritime operations especially in areas such as Tchika, Gore Kendi and Kerena, among others. In Sector 2, Chad, he said the troops had dominated the maritime domain from Bagalam-Kongalam to Koulfoua and denied the terrorists freedom of operation. The MNJTF spokesman said this had led to the return of about 3,000 civilians in the general area of Bakatorolorom. Adegoke also said troops of Sector 3, Nigeria, had on Jan. 18 and Jan. 23, intercepted a Boko Haram logistics supplier in Baga in possession of motorcycle spare parts. He added that the troops on Jan. 27, encountered terrorists along Damasak–Gubio road who fled on sighting the troops and abandoned two motorcycles, two hand grenades and some terrorists uniforms. Adegoke said a raid operation on terrorists’ camp in Matari on the Niger/Nigeria border was conducted by troops of Sector 4, Niger, on Jan. 21 and Jan 23, with the support of Sector 3, Nigeria, and other partners. According to him, the well conducted special forces operation led to the destruction of terrorists’ camp, neutralisation of over a dozen terrorists, destruction of their equipment and capture of two high value target criminals. “There was no casualty on our forces side as they were successfully extricated. “The courageous troops of Sector 4, Niger, acting on intelligence reports also swooped on three suspected terrorists logisticians in Nguigmi market on Jan. 29 in Niger Republic. “They were trying to buy supplies for suspected BHT/ISWAP key leaders hiding in the Lake Chad, a total sum of N1.2 million (old notes) and CFA160,000 were recovered. “The criminals are in custody undergoing further profiling. “On same day, troops of Sector 4 in continuing offensive operations conducted a special forces raid operation in Afofo forest in Niger Republic and destroyed a terrorist camp and captured 36 suspected criminals. “In the process of withdrawing from this operations, the troops intercepted a FJ45 Toyota vehicle loaded with assorted pharmaceutical products possibly being ferried to the Lake Chad areas,” he said. Adegoke said that 77 terrorists comprising fighters and their families surrendered in the last two weeks to MNJTF Sector 4 troops in response to kinetic and non-kinetic activities of the MNJTF. He added that eight others surrendered in the same period to Sector 1, Cameroon and Sector 2, Chad troops, making a total of 85 surrendered terrorists within the period. According to him, all the surrendered are being treated in line with International Humanitarian Laws and profiled for further action by relevant state and non-governmental organisations. “The interdiction by the Air Component of the MNJTF/Operation Hadin Kai has also destroyed several enemy camps and neutralised scores of terrorists. “The Force Commander MNJTF, Maj.-Gen. Abdul Khalifah Ibrahim has expressed appreciation on the efforts of the gallant troops of the MNJTF through their various Sector Commanders and the air component. “He urged them to maintain the pressure on the criminals and urged those in the bush to lay down their arms and surrender. “He promised to continue to support the Sectors to achieve their mission and called for more international support and cooperation for the MNJTF while thanking the strategic partners for their support,” he said. 