Leadway Assurance said on Tuesday that it has received re-certification for the ISO/IEC 27001 Certification for Information Security Management Systems for its robust and thorough information security processes. This company  said in a statement issued by Ms Femi Olayinka, Strategy And Innovations Manager, Modion Communications Agency in Lagos. The ISO/IEC 27001 is an international standard certification issued by the International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) to organisations that have established superior systems and processes for managing information security. It details the requirements for establishing, implementing, maintaining, continually improving and securing the organisation’s information assets. Mr Tunde Hassan-Odukale, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Leadway Assurance, said the re-certification is a recognition of the company’s unwavering commitment. Hassan-Odukale added that the firm complied with the processes of providing quality management information and security management systems for the cyber safety of its stakeholders. According to him, the re-certification is yet another strong indicator that the brand is built on unmatched and entrenched risk management systems buoyed by a robust enterprise information technology. He said that the development was to ensure that the underwriting firm was on top of the game ahead of the prevailing severe cyber crimes. “We understand the criticality of today’s cyber security realities, so we must invest in providing word-class cyber security architecture, reengineer and optimise our robust risk management processes. “This is to protect critical data on our customers, financial operations, medical information and employee details. “We are delighted to have this re-certification and I am confident that having achieved this milestone, we will continue to maintain and sustain continuous system improvement. “We will also give room for external checks and balances for proper efficacy and future scrutiny in line with the global standard,” he said.
Leadway Assurance is one of Nigeria’s foremost insurance service companies committed to bridging the financial protection gap and increasing insurance penetration in Nigeria. 