German Chancellor, Olaf Scholz, on Wednesday assured Ukrainian President, Volodymyr Zelensky,  of Europe’s ongoing support in the war against Russia. Germany would continue to provide military aid to Ukraine “as long as it needs,” Scholz told Zelensky at a meeting alongside French President, Emmanuel Macron, in Paris on Wednesday evening. “Russia should not win this war,” Scholz added. Zelensky is also expected to attend an EU summit in Brussels on Thursday. “I am taking a clear message to Brussels: Ukraine belongs to the European family,” Scholz said. Paris would continue its efforts to deliver arms to Kiev, Macron said. “Russia cannot and must not win this war. As long as Russia continues to attack. “We will continue to adapt and moderate the necessary military support to preserve Ukraine and its future,” the French president said. Macron and Scholz had visited Zelensky together in Kiev in June and promised him their support for Ukraine’s EU candidate status. Earlier on Wednesday Zelensky visited London, where he renewed his request for Western fighter jets. In London, Zelensky thanked the British and their government for their support in front of hundreds of parliamentarians in Westminster Hall. The Ukrainian leader said he was grateful for the weapons that Britain had already supplied, but pressed for more including fighter jets. The NATO allies were yet to approve warplanes for Ukraine. His speech was greeted with enthusiasm by his audience of politicians. Earlier, British Prime Minister, Rishi Sunak, had given him a friendly reception at Stansted Airport and Downing Street. Zelensky was received by King Charles III at Buckingham Palace and visited Ukrainian soldiers on training by the British Army. Sunak described Zelensky’s visit as “a testament to his country’s courage, determination and fight, and a testament to the unbreakable friendship between our two countries.” Britain had been quick and decisive in backing Ukraine since the start of the war. According to the Kiel Institute for the World Economy, it’s the second most important arms supplier to Ukraine after the United States. This is only the second trip abroad that Zelensky has made since the beginning of the full-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine nearly a year ago. The first one took him to Poland and the U.S. 