The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, Ojaja 11, has appealed to all stakeholders in the ongoing presidential election to maintain peace in their various areas. He particularly appealed to politicians and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to be matured in their conducts in order for peace to reign. This is contained in a statement signed by the Director, Media and Public Affairs in the Ooni’s Palace, Otunba Moses Olafare, at the Ile Oodua Palace, on Tuesday in  Ile-Ife. The Ooni explained that Nigerians particularly the low income earners had  been waiting patiently for the electioneering period to be over for them to resume normal activities. “The imbroglio developing from the presidential election of Saturday is unnecessary, distracting and totally unacceptable, for the nation does not need it at the moment. “All over the world, elections are known to be disputed. And the tension must be addressed in a way in line with laws of the land and in accordance with the best global practices. “All politicians involved and their respective political parties without exception not to do anything capable of heating up the polity as this dangerously amounts to torching up a simmering fire of Nigerian cohesion”. Ooni stated. Accordingly, he charged the national electoral body to  remain on the path of fairness, equity and justice as it sets to complete the process of announcing the result of the election as adopted in global best standard. Oba Ogunwusi urged Nigerians to remain patient and understanding of the fact that the country remained far bigger than all entities and personalities. “Nigeria and indeed some Nigerians are yet to recover from the hurts that emanated from the mismanagement of the #ENDSARS protest, that is why we must be watchful of our conducts and speeches. “Nigerians have suffered enough and any form of uproar will add to the already harsh condition of living for Nigerians especially the poor and vulnerable amongst us. “I equally urge our youths to resist all pressure to be utilised by unpatriotic elements as thugs,” the Ooni stated. 