A lawmaker in Ondo state, Mr Sunday Olajide, has described as “choking” and pain inflicting the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) redesigned naira note policy introduced late last year. Olajide, a member of the Ondo State House of Assembly, representing Akure South Constituency 2, in a statement made available to newsmen on Friday in Akure, rued the policy and called for speedy measures to restore normalcy. He said that the scarcity of the new naira notes, withdrawal limit policy and lingering fuel scarcity had caused severe pains to many homes in the country. “Nigerians are finding it extremely difficult to survive. The policy is choking everyone. “It has come to our knowledge that some elements are out there sabotaging the system apparently in a bid to scuttle the chances of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu in the election” “They are enemies of the country. Truth be told, President Buhari inherited certain appointees of government from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who are still within the system,” the lawmaker stated. Olajide said that Nigerians are faced with the hardship of getting the redesigned naira notes from the banks and also are also battling with fuel scarcity, paying as much as N550 for a litre of petrol at some filling stations. The lawmaker said that the situation which has lingered since the beginning of 2023 was inimical to the economy of country and the health and wellbeing of the people. “Is Emefiele really on top of his job? The policy by Emefiele led CBN has shown that he lacks the knowledge and experience to turn around the country’s economy,” Olajide said. He stated that some economic saboteurs were behind what the country was currently passing through and were clearly not working in the interest of All Progressives Congress (APC) and the government. “Don’t let us deceive ourselves. Buhari is not the problem. “He meant well for the nation and he wouldn’t allow his infrastructural legacies and efforts on security be bungled just like that,” the lawmaker said. Olajide, a member of APC Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) urged Nigerians to vote Sen. Tinubu, saying that the renewed hope manifesto of Tinubu would offer refreshing reliefs to Nigerians. The lawmaker said that Tinubu remained the man to beat in the Feb. 25 Presidential election. 