President Muhammadu Buhari has again pledged to ensure electoral victory for the Presidential Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, at the Feb. 25 presidential election. Mr Femi Adesina, the President’s spokesman said Buhari made the pledge at the palace of the Emir of Katsina, on Monday. He enjoined the Emir, Abdulmumini Kabir-Usman and Emirate Council to mobilise for the political leader. ”We are here to present our candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu,” the President said during a courtesy call in the palace. “Asiwaju has been chosen by our party and we are fully in support of his candidature, and we will work for his victory at the polls.” The president personally condole the leaders and citizens of Katsina State following the recent terrorist attack on vigilantes in Bakori Local Government area of the state, in which many lives were lost. According to him, his administration will continue to listen to wise counsels from experts, traditional rulers and political leaders on the economy. Buhari also pledged to adopt best practices in safeguarding the interest of the people. “I hope citizens of the country and indigenes will remember what the Governor of Katsina state, and the Emir of Katsina said about the polity and situation in the country. ”I will not want to add more,” he said. In his remarks, Gov. Aminu Masari commended the president for introducing a social security structure that directly impacted the lives of citizens, with direct transfer of funds to people, and a school feeding programme that encouraged more children to enroll. “The President has approved more than N38 billion that went straight to improve the lives of citizens here and we saw the difference. “He didn’t put money in the hands of the rich and privileged so that they could undermine the poor and vulnerable. He reached out directly. “The President has worked for the interest of the country and citizens. ”We cannot compare the opportunities he got with the previous administrations. And yet, we can see the difference in terms of results in infrastructure and growth of the economy. “It is unfair and uncharitable to compare someone who was given a N1000 with another person that got a N100. Yet, you can see the result” he added. The governor sympathised with the families of vigilantes who were ambushed and killed by terrorists in Bakori Local Government Area. “The terrorists have behaved like animals, animals are even better than them in many ways. ”Animals will only kill their kin when hungry, but terrorists have slain without purpose,” Masari noted. The governor said the ambush and killing of the vigilantes would be investigated and those involved will face the law. He urged citizens to avoid politicians that had been flagging the ethnic and religious cards. “Our God is a God of wisdom and superior power. If he wanted the entire world to be called Katsina, he would have done so. ”If God wanted all citizens black, white or red, he would have done so. He created a diverse world, and we must respect that,” he said. Masari presented the APC presidential candidate to the Emirate Council, noting that Tinubu’s record of service in Lagos State and the nation have been commendable. “Lagos state had a poor security record, with cases of attacks, robberies and dead bodies on streets, until Asiwaju took over leadership in 1999. “The state has been transformed with infrastructure and earned a reputation as one of the fastest growing cities in the world. “The state is now a centre of excellence because of the vision of the APC presidential candidate,” Masari added. The APC presidential candidate condoled with President Buhari, Masari and the Emirate Council over the terrorist attack. He promised that the victims loved ones would be catered for, and efforts would be made to apprehend the masterminds of such heinous crime in the country. “We will not forget them. We will not forget their children and the parents left behind. ”No leader will be happy to see citizens slaughtered or hear of it. It is sad, painful and tortuous,” Tinubu said. According to him, the peace and stability of the nation remains a collective responsibility. “Thank you for the prayers and support. You promised to be behind the President like a rock of Gibraltar and you have done so. “The President brought me here, and he has brought me home. I can say welcome home, because I am at home here,” he stated. Tinubu thanked the Emirate Council for their support to the president, assuring that he would continue with the same legacy of discipline and fairness, when elected to office. The Emir of Katsina thanked President Buhari for presenting the APC candidate to the Emirate Council and citizens of Katsina, assuring that they would pray and mobilize for victory at the polls. He appealed to the president to look into the challenges posed by currency swap, adding that the “pain of the people, should be the pain of leadership.” 