The Royal Commonwealth Society has called on Nigerians to peacefully exercise their electoral franchise in the general elections on Saturday to ensure the smooth transition of government. Mr Blackson Bayewumi, Country Director of the Society, Nigeria, gave the advice in a statement on Friday ahead of the 2023 general elections. Bayewumi, who is also the Chairman, The Nigeria Conversation, said the general elections provided another opportunity for Nigerians to consolidate on the democratic gains recorded thus far. He said it was crucial for Nigeria as a leading country, not only in Africa, but in the Commonwealth and in the global community to get it right. “Every Nigerian is a shareholder in the Nigerian project. “As such promoting and ensuring peaceful, free, fair, transparent, acceptable, and successful 2023 general elections should not be left to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies, and politicians alone. “All Nigerians should be committed to the smoothness and peace of the forthcoming elections. It is important to emphasise that it is a constitutional responsibility and an obligation to the nation, for every registered voter to go out and vote in every election. “To this end, I am appealing to all electorate to go out and cast their votes for their preferred candidates during the election, “I also implore voters to remain peaceful before, during, and after the elections,” he said. Bayewumi specifically called on politicians and security agencies to ensure the process is smooth and peaceful “Politicians and public office holders are also implored to be committed to the peaceful conduct of the elections and ensure credibility of the process, while I appeal to Security personnel to be neutral and ensure security and safety of lives and property. “The success of the 2023 General Elections and peaceful transition of power should be accorded high priority by every Nigerian. “The Nigeria of our dream is ours to build and the future starts with our actions today,” he said. The country director explained that every nation that desires to stand tall, strong, and solid often requires the concerted efforts of its citizens such as students, the youth, women, civil servants, professionals, civil society, and public servants. The others include transporters, farmers, traders, unions, associations, market men and women, firms, businesses, institutions, security personnel, corporations, traditional institutions, religious bodies, and political parties. “Democracy, human rights, tolerance, respect and understanding, freedom of expression, separation of powers, Rule of Law and good governance are not only cornerstones of constitutionalism, but core principles of the Commonwealth. “This is embedded in the Commonwealth Charter adopted by Commonwealth Heads of Government, based on the report of the Commonwealth Eminent Persons Group of 2011, and signed by Queen Elizabeth II, the then, Head of the Commonwealth in December 2013. “The concept of Representative Democracy is optimised, embedded, and predicated on peaceful, free, fair, transparent, acceptable, and successful elections. “Since the re-admission of Nigeria to the Commonwealth in 1999, the Association has been promoting the aforementioned values for successful elections in the country. “Further, the Association has demonstrated strong support for the Nigeria nation over the years, at deepening democracy in the country, building and strengthening necessary Democratic Institutions in the nation,” he added. He observed that in the last 24 years, democratisation in Nigeria had gone through experimentation by political actors. He, however, stressed the need to respect the cornerstones of Democracy such as separation of powers, checks and balances, and the rule of law. The Royal Commonwealth Society is a network of individuals and organisations committed to improving the lives and prospects of Commonwealth citizens across the world. 